The Joe Rogan experience. You know, they were talking about, uh, Hawaii,
you know, and all these different invasive species that live in Hawaii. And, uh,
there was this discussion about pigs mm-hmm <affirmative> and they were saying,
you know, like, we should really take the pigs off of Hawaii.
And a lot of the people in Hawaii, like, hang on right in here,
as long as the pigs. Right. So like, are we invasive? Right?
Like what's invasive now. Right? Like when does it become,
because obviously like Lu OS they're synonymous with like eating pigs
and wild pigs are a, a big part of, you know, the,
the people that hunt in Hawaii. Mm-hmm <affirmative>,
that's they're food source. Yeah. So they they're like, well, what it,
but then you have a situation like Lanai, where I go every year,
the access deer. Yeah. Which is terrible. Mm-hmm <affirmative> environmentally,
it's a disaster, right? Like it's, it's all wrong.
There's 30,000 deer on this one island that many 30,000.
They don't really they're, they're guessing the estimates between 20 and 30,000.
Right. And there's 3000 people. Yeah. And dude,
you ain't never seen anything like it, cuz it's a little island Uhhuh.
You drive around the whole thing in an hour. Uhhuh.
I mean maybe a little bit more than that, but not much. Sure.
It's a tiny island. Right. And there's so many deer. Yeah.
That's you'll see them on like you'll, you'll get your binoculars out.
You look at this huge field and you're like, oh my God, you'll see a thousand.
Oh, you're kidding. No, no, it's crazy. It's CRA it's so unnatural.
No predators. Only humans. Plenty of food. Right.
Right. And they're just populations exploded everywhere. Yeah.
And they're delicious. Right.
I have heard that before before for people who live there, it's amazing.
You know, like if you don't have to have much money to eat really well, right.
You get a rifle, you go out there, bang,
you got a deer and you could shoot as many as you want.
You could shoot seven in a day and stockpile your freezer and have all your meat
for the year.
And they're that abundant. Like if someone wanted to stock. Oh my God. Yeah.
The only thing that keeps me from killing a ton of 'em is that I use a bow and
arrow and it's really hard to do with a bone arrow. Cause they're so fast.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> and they evolved in Asia to get away from tigers.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> they're an Indian animal. Right. So it's uh, super fast.
It it's a tough argument that could, because you're right. Like Hawaiian people,
pig is culturally significant to them. You know,
just like probably access Deere is to the people of NY and has been for however
long the deer have been there. But I guess it's like at what cost, right? Right.
At what cost, if, if, and I don't think this is the case, but if someone said,
look, if I know these pigs are culturally significant to who you,
but if we leave them here, the whole Island's ecosystem will collapse.
There'll be no birds, no fish, you know, no lizards, nothing.
Is it worth it to have pigs? Right? Like that's and it's delicate the.
Pigs in particular. Right? Cause they eat everything. Meat, ground nesting,
birds. They'll devastate everything that same, everything in front of a roots.
They'll up every tree, everything that's coming up. All the routes. Everything.
Yeah. Yeah. They're super destructive here.
There's destructive here in California. Yeah. It's not,
it's not isolated to Hawaii. Everywhere that we've brought pigs. They've done a.
Lot of damage, but we're actually gonna, I was,
we were talking about this out here. We're gonna film something about, uh,
hunting pigs at Toone ranch cuz Toone ranch. Like the place gets devastated.
The agriculture gets devastated by these pigs. There's so many of them. Right.
And they're all over Northern California has a problem in San Jose.
They're in people's yards. They're destroying. And because they're, they,
if you don't kill them,
they just breed and breed and breed and breed and breed and breed.
And then they expand. Right. And they're, they're dealing with them now,
even in the Northern part of the United States, right.
They're dealing with 'em in the Northeast.
There was a New York times article about it. See if you can find that, um,
from two days ago. Okay.
About the expansion of wild pigs is that they're starting to make their way into
the Northeastern states and they're just, they can't be stopped.
They can survive in any weather. Yep. They breed three times a year. They can.
They're viable. I think from the time they're five to six months old,
they have their first litter Farrell, pigs roam the south.
Now even the Northern states, aren't safe.
The swine have established themselves in Canada. Oh wow.
And they're encroaching on border states like Montana and North Dakota. man.
If they get into Montana.
They'll do so much damage. And you know,
what's crazy about the far pigs in the United States. They were brought here by,
I believe Christopher Columbus starting with six animals. Whoa.
So the entire 200 million or whatever it is across the us,
I don't know the number.
It was like six or eight or 10 original pigs that were brought in by Christopher
Columbus and dropped in Florida. That's insane.
That's you wanna talk about out how crazy they can reproduce and how much damage
they do.
Like think of the biomass of those animals stemming off of like six of them.
That's.
Insane. And they're so tough.
You can put 'em on a boat and they'll make it across the ocean.
Oh yeah, no they're amaz and, and they are terrible for the environment.
Like they do so much damage to native species to riparian habitat. I mean,
they're I, like you said, we were talking about it out there briefly and um,
it's, it's a good thing.
People should realize that invasive species like that should not be in an
ecosystem. Well, they.
Certainly shouldn't be in an ecosystem when there's no balance. Right.
If they're wart hogs and they're in Africa, there's a system for that. Exactly.
Like they're all they're supposed to be there.
Wart hogs are wild looking creatures. Aren't they? You seen one,
you've seen one in.
Yeah, up there. I grew up in Zimbabwe. Oh, that's right. That's right. I got,
I actually, I got a pretty funny story about a war hog. Um, my uncle, uh, my,
my mom's brother, we were out on safari one time and he was, he was young.
You know, he is, he was much younger than my mother.
So he was maybe a teenager or something.
And he grabbed this plum and started going for a walk across camp. And anyway,
this war hog decided it wanted this plum.
And so it came trotting after my uncle and started chasing him in circles around
this tree. But my uncle was so panicked by this thing,
chasing him around this big Baab tree that he wouldn't drop the plum. Oh.
So he is just in this perpetual cycle of being,
of being chased around this tree until he eventually threw the plum and the war
hog just veered off and went for the plum. <laugh>.
Lucky. Didn't want him. Yeah. <laugh>.
They're, they're very funny. Very mischievous.
I love the way their tails stick up through the grass when they're running
around. They're.
Weird looking, but they they're they're they're related to pigs right.
In some sort of.
Way. Yeah. Oh yeah. Yeah. They're all that same family. Speaking of weird pigs,
are you familiar with the barber Russa? No, this is one we should pull up.
You're gonna love this animal. Yeah. You're gonna love this.
It it's one of my top bucket list animals to see in the wild it's great name.
Yeah. Barber.
Russa. You gotta,
I don't even wanna tell you what it is until you see the image.
Tell me you be like no way. That's real. It looks like.
So outta star wars really?
Mm-hmm <affirmative> and it's a pig.
Where does it live? Indonesia. How.
Bigs it get.
Uh, maybe 200 pounds. I'm not positive on the size. Boom. Whoa.
Look at that thing. Look at those tus.
Growing out of it is those things that grow out of its the middle of its head.
That's crazy. Yeah. <laugh> look at that one.
What the bro that does not look real, right?
Doesn't that look like signing out star wars. Yes. That's.
A real animal that looks like an avatar creature. That's what it looks like.
Is that fighting something mm-hmm <affirmative> looks like,
is it fighting there? Another one? I think, oh my God.
Barus is going to war it's uh, pig deer.
<laugh> they call it a pig deer that says Barus or pig deer.
This might be somebody just making a guess, like their nickname of it.
I actually think they're uh, having sex there. Oh, getting it on.
That's not fighting. Making more Papas. That's just. Barbus jujitsu.
Yeah.
That's the kind of fighting mommy and daddy do late at.
Night. <laugh> mommy and daddy were just playing. Don't worry.
No one's getting hurt. Mommy was gagging <laugh> um, yeah,
right there. Jamie, who are you? Cursor is click on that one. What the man?
Isn't that a.
Wild pig?
The things coming out of it,
the tusks that come outta the middle of its head are so strange.
Like where did that come from? I, I.
Don't know why you evolved that. Maybe, maybe like a peacock tail, you know,
for a showmanship, but what's really crazy about them evolving those two,
two teeth or tusks out of their, their bridge of their snout is they,
if they're not broken in fights and rooting around,
they can grow long enough that they will puncture the animal in the head and
kill it. I've heard.
Of that. Oh, that's these, you know why? Cause I, I put a, an image of it on my,
my, uh, Instagram. It was one of those Jeffrey Epstein.
Didn't kill himself memes. Oh yeah. I saw.
A few of those. He threw up.
And it was a, a Barb Russa skull.
Actually. Oh. Saying that it can do.
That, that it actually was driving into its own head growing into its own head.
Yeah.
Like that. Yeah. Insane. That's.
Crazy. Like maybe that's nature's way of saying all right, enough check, check,
please. Your will, were forever. Eat everything in front of you like that one.
Look at that. Yeah. Look how there it is. Growing into its own brain.
Imagine what a like one day you have like a little bit of a headache and the
next day it just gets a little worse. You're like, what is going on?
<laugh> and what do.
You do? It's like, if you go and you know, hit that against the ground,
it's only gonna get worse.
Right. It's already in your brain. Yeah. Yeah. You'd have to get it.
You'd have to be smart enough to find a branch.
We could slip that over and torque your head.
Yeah. I don't think I don't snap it off. I don't think that's happening.
If you're a pig.
Is this awful?
I mean often that this happens when they kill themselves by growing that tusk
into their brain. I don't know.
That looks like two of them heading that direction. They're crazy. Animal.
What a beautiful animal though.
So there's an extinct subspecies of those called the Melo Bara,
which in the single island near Sulu Wei used to be.
And then they think people have hunted him, um, you know,
to extinction localized extinction within that island and that subspecies.
But uh, some people I know that worked over there ate one.
So they're like, yeah, no, we ate this wild pig with these crazy horns recently.
And I was like, yeah, this was like two years ago. Um, you know,
and they have no proof and they don't have the skull and they don't have the
picture.
They were like, they were traveling and they're like, yeah, yeah, we got back.
And we ate this pig with these wild horns on this particular island.
And I was like, wait, is that possibly a Malo and bar Russa? I was like,
I don't know. And you look where they were and what they said and what they ate.
And it's like, oh, that could be an extinct, an extinct, uh,
subspecies that you guys consumed. Well,
how many biologists are actually actively out there looking for these creatures?
Well, those, I would say zero currently that species,
but with regards to this field of presumed extinct animals,
it seems to be a movement that's ending.